# Nemo

## About

Nemo is a custom Verilog compiler backend target module to be used along side
the open source frontend Verilog compiler tool Icarus Verilog
(http://iverilog.icarus.com/). Nemo allows an IC designer to create signal
dependency graphs for any signal(s) in the design after it has been synthesized
and mapped.

In order for Nemo to be usefull, it must be invoked by the Icarus Verilog (IVL)
frontend compiler and interacts with the data structures created by IVL via the
IVL API defined by in the "ivl_target.h" header file. In order to use Nemo, one
must first build/install IVL before building/installing Nemo.

Nemo takes as input the following:

|     | Input                  | Type          | Default    |
| --- | ---------------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
|  1  | Verilog Netlist        | file name(s)* | n/a        |
|  2  | Critical Signal Prefix | string        | "critical" |
|  3  | Search Depth           | unsigned int  | 1          |
<!-- |  4  | CLK Signal Name        | string        | "CLK"      |
|  5  | Ignore Clock Signal    | boolean       | 1          | -->

\**Verilog netlists should include a netlist file describing the standard cell
modules used for synthesis must be included in Verilog files. A script to
generate this from a Verilog description of a STD cell library is included in
the "scripts/" directory.*

Nemo identifies critical signals in the input Verilog netlist (e.g., the output
from a Verilog synthesis tool) based on a signal prefix match (defined in input)
and generates a signal ependency graph (to a graph depth also defined in input)
to identify which signals in a design have the potential to influence a critical
signal. Nemo outputs the critical signal dependency graph in the Graphviz .dot
format.

Example Nemo input files, a Verilog netlist and a standard cell Verilog netlist,
are available in the "netlists/" directory. Example Nemo output files, a DOT
file and a PDF visual representation of the DOT file, are available in the
"graphs/" directory.

## Configurations

There are several parameters that can be configured within Nemo to achieve
various goals. All #define configurations are located in the "nemo.h" file. The
following configurations are:

1. DEBUG_PRINTS             < true | false > - if true, include print statements
                                               for debugging code 
2. INCLUDE_LOCAL_SIGNALS    < true | false > - if true, include signals 
                                               generated by IVL frontend 
3. ENUMERATE_ENTIRE_CIRCUIT < true | false > - if true, create signal 
                                               dependencies for entire circuit
4. IGNORE_CLK_SIGNALS       < true | false > - if true, create signal 
                                               dependencies for entire circuit
5. SEQUENTIAL_CLK_PIN_NAME  < string >       - CLK signal name that is ignored 
                                               by nemo in graph propogation

# Installation

## 1. Cloning Nemo Git Repository

The Nemo Git repository contains IVL as a Git submodule. Thus there are two ways to initialize the Nemo git repository as follows:

`git clone --recurse-submodules https://llcad-github.llan.ll.mit.edu/HSS/nemo`

-OR-

`git clone https://llcad-github.llan.ll.mit.edu/HSS/nemo`
`git submodule init`
`git submodule update`

## 2. Disabling optimization functions of IVL

Disabling the optimization functions of IVL is important for preserving the
input netlists structure as-is for analysis by Nemo. To do so, you must simply
comment out two blocks of code in the "main.cc" file in the top-level IVL
source code (lines 1179, and 1182-1188) submodule directory as follows:

Line 1179:
```cout << "RUNNING FUNCTORS" << endl;```

Line 1182-1188:
```
while (!net_func_queue.empty()) {
	net_func func = net_func_queue.front();
	net_func_queue.pop();
	if (verbose_flag)
		cerr<<" -F "<<net_func_to_name(func)<< " ..." <<endl;
	func(des);
}
```

## 3. Building Nemo/IVL

The Makefile provided with the Nemo repository (nemo/tgt-nemo/Makefile) contains targets for automatically building the IVL submodule and Nemo IVL target module all in one swoop.

Automatic IVL/Nemo Installation:
1. `cd <nemo repository>`
2. `cd tgt-nemo`
3. `make all`

Alternatively, one can choose to manually build IVL first, then manually build/install Nemo. Building IVL and Nemo manually can be accomplished using the following installation instructions:

1. IVL Manual Installation:
	1. `cd <nemo repository>`
	2. `cd iverilog`
	3. comment out IVL optimization functions (see above)
	4. `sh autoconf.sh`
	5. `./configure --prefix=$(pwd)` 
	6. `make install` 
	7. `cd ..`

2. Nemo Manual Installation:
	1. `cd tgt-nemo`
	2. `make all`

# Nemo User Guide

# Run Nemo Test

-run "make run" inside tgtnemo directory

--or--

-run "<path to IVL>/iverilog v t nemo s <top module name> o <output DOT file
-name> <netlist> <std cell netlist>"
											   
## Update 1.1 - 9/14/17
Nemo has been updated to account for more complex port-to-port signal
connections that occur when two modules are hooked up in a netlist.

Nemo has also been updated to tolerate/ignore clock tree signals that
can be identified with a user specified prefix that is to be declared
defined in the "nemo.h" file (SEQUENTIAL_CLK_PIN_NAME). The option
to analyze or ignore the clock tree signals is also defined in the
"nemo.h" file (IGNORE_CLK_SIGNALS).

## Update 1.2 - 2/12/19
Nemo has been updated to accept more configuration information as from
the command line, to enable streamlined integration with other tool flows.
The following additional configuration inputs have been enabled:

1. Critical signal prefix string (string)
2. Search depth (unsigned integer)
<!-- 3. CLK signal name (string)
4. Ignore clock signal (boolean) -->

Each configuration input is passed on the command line by prefixing a
"-p" to each parameter name as follows:

1. -pnemo_sig_prefix=<critical signal prefix>
2. -pnemo_search_depth=<search depth>
<!-- 3. -pnemo_sequential_clk_pin_name=<CLK signal name>
4. -pnemo_ignore_clk_signals=<ignore clk signals (0/1)> -->

Nemo has also been updated to include IVL as a git submodule for easier
deployment and installation.

## License
Copyright (c) 2017, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
   list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
   this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
   and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release: distribution unlimited.

This material is based upon work supported by the Assistant Secretary of Defense
for Research and Engineering under Air Force Contract No. FA8721-05-C-0002
and/or FA8702-15-D-0001. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations
expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and
Engineering.

© 2017 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

The software/firmware is provided to you on an As-Is basis

Delivered to the U.S. Government with Unlimited Rights, as defined in DFARS Part
252.227-7013 or 7014 (Feb 2014). Notwithstanding any copyright notice, U.S.
Government rights in this work are defined by DFARS 252.227-7013 or DFARS
252.227-7014 as detailed above. Use of this work other than as specifically
authorized by the U.S. Government may violate any copyrights that exist in this
work.
